Our robo friends up we've missed it haven't we we haven't seen our robo friends in a long time but I
want to demonstrate some of the caching things happening behind the scenes with rubber friends.
If I open up the developer tools remember how I said that the client side or the browser has a ton of
caching mechanisms to make sure that our robo friends app is as fast as possible.
Well if I refresh your.
I get all these requests but check out the size tab for make this a little bit bigger.
We see that it's saying our HMO file our CSSA file and our javascript file was from service worker.
There's no size associated with it because this is cached by the service worker.
Remember how the service worker is something that allows us to intercept SCDP requests and it's going
to check the cache and say hey do I already have this do I already have CSSA do I already have javascript
and just return it without actually hitting the server.
Well yeah that's what it is right.
If we go back to the application tab we see that oh yeah we have a cache that is provided by the browser.
Cold cash storage and in here look at that I have all these files that I've cached including my font
my javascript fall my CSSA my H.T. mail.
These are all cached saved in the browser.
And we also have something called application cache which is an older form of cache stories that not
many people use anymore.
But you see that we have this ability in the browser to remember things but it's not just this raid.
We also have things like session storage which we've talked about where I can hold information like
key value information like holding tokens but he can do some interesting things here where you hold
perhaps objects and other information that might be useful for your app to remember without having to
go back to the server or doing those requests.
And again same for local storage.
And you can even use things like indexed IDB or index D-B which is used a lot in mobile applications
where you have a little mini database on the browser all things to make sure that you're not traveling
making requests over wires over long distances.
Now if we go back to the Network tab We also see that if I scroll down a half from memory cache that
this was accessed because this refresh happened while I've already visited this site before and it remembers
and you see that that's all from memory.
So it's extremely fast.
And then I also have dispatch and we know all about these we know about memory we know about disk and
we also learned about service workers.
And if I refresh again again I have all these things still cached if I do a hard refresh so I say all
right I want to empty cache and hard to reload.
There you go.
That Web site took a little bit longer to load.
And we see that.
Yeah.
We've actually requested all these things to be loaded all over again with the exception of a few things
that I have running in the background which is just the plug ins that I have but all the Web site materials
where requested from the Bakken or whatever service we have five refresh again.
Again a lot faster.
Everything is cached now.
We already know how to do this service worker things but how do we cash these things.
Ourselves manual.
I feel like this is being done by the browser automatically and yes browsers are configured to do this
automatically for us but we can't control it.
And in the next video I'm going to show you how to do this.
But before I do this you might be asking yourself there's an issue here what if a designer or my team
decides to change this CSSA file and make the let's say the robot's background red instead of green
any user that would refresh then well wouldn't see that red background because they're using it get
they're using this information from cache and because it's from cache it won't know that the changes
have been made.
And while my web site is completely different in my view an older version of the Web site.
How do we deal with this.
And this is something called Cash busting.
I know it's a pretty cool sounding name but it's very simple.
You see these random numbers that were generated for us a you remember when we go back to our robo friends
PWI when we do NPM run build what pack gets everything optimized for production combines all the CSSA
files all the javascript files into one end and two optimized files and we see that it's all so zipped
which we know about.
That's great but we also see that it's build a new main SS and.
And these numbers are created by Crea react up all we can manually create them as well.
We can just change the name file to this.
Now here's the cool thing.
If I run NPM run build again
and I release these files to production let's say I put them on good hot pages.
Well you see that these numbers are the exact same as they were before.
So the user is just going to see a cached version of my older phos because well they haven't changed.
What if we change something.
What if I open up a sublime text and in here I'm just going to change our let's say our CSSA and index
that CSSA to have padding of 50 pixels.
I'm going to save go back and run NPM run build again.
All right.
We see that web pack has created the Bondel and we see that it's two bytes larger because we've just
added a few extra characters and our javascript file if we go up a bit we see is the exact same name
but our CSSA file now has a different number than the one above.
And again well-packed does this automatically for you if there's been a change already.
Well in that case I'm going to change this number so that next time I go back to Roble friends up and
let's say I put this up in production on how pages when I refresh this page the CSSA file will have
a different number.
And the way the browser knows the CSSA file has changed.
I'm going to grab the latest one and that is what cache busting is as long as you name your files differently.
It's going to grab it no matter what.
Whether it has it in cash or not.
Very very cool.
Now even if you don't have create re-act app that's something easily that you can implement yourself.
Right.
If a designer creates a new CSSA style with red backgrounds they can just simply manually change this
number to something different before maybe you can save version 5.
And now you make sure that all your users will have the latest version.
They'll grab the latest version and then when they refresh again they'll use it from cache but they
will have the red background.
All right in the next video we're going to talk about how you can implement caching yourself without
just using this default behavior from Craig re-act app and the browser.
I'll see you in the next one.